---
layout: Page
title: Master Subscription Agreement
label: Master Subscription Agreement
noindex: true
sections:
  - type: Section
    heading: Master {Subscription Agreement}
    variant: tight
    className: mt-20 -mb-16
---

**BY SIGNING THE ORDER FORM REFERENCING THESE TERMS, YOU (“YOU” OR “YOUR”) ARE UNCONDITIONALLY CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY AND ARE BECOMING A PARTY TO THE MATERIALIZE, INC. (“MATERIALIZE,” “WE,” “US,” OR “OUR”) MATERIALIZE MASTER SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT (THE “TERMS”). YOUR AND YOUR COMPANY’S (COLLECTIVELY, “CUSTOMER”) CONTINUED USE OF THE SERVICES AND SOFTWARE (AS DEFINED BELOW) SHALL ALSO CONSTITUTE ASSENT TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT UNCONDITIONALLY AGREE TO ALL OF THESE TERMS, DO NOT USE MATERIALIZE’S SERVICES AND SOFTWARE SET FORTH IN THE ORDER FORM. IF THESE TERMS ARE CONSIDERED AN OFFER, ACCEPTANCE IS EXPRESSLY LIMITED TO THESE TERMS. THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE MODIFIED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.4 OF THIS AGREEMENT. YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO AGREE AND/OR ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND BIND YOURSELF OR THE ENTITY YOU REPRESENT (AS APPLICABLE) TO THESE TERMS.**

## 1\. Definitions.

Certain capitalized terms used herein are set forth below, other terms shall have the respective meanings set forth elsewhere in this Agreement.

“Order Form” means an order form that has been signed and executed by both Customer and Materialize, and which shall specify, among other items, the Services ordered, the term of the applicable Order Form and applicable Subscription Fees (as defined below). Any additional terms or changes to the terms of this Agreement within an Order Form will apply only to the Services described therein.

“Services” means (a) installation of the Software on Customer’s premises as described on the applicable Order Form, (b) access to the Software in a hosted environment that is managed by Materialize as described on the applicable Order Form (c) Materialize’s provision of technical support, as described in the Service Level Agreement (“SLA”) attached to an Order Form, and (d) any other services that Materialize may offer to licensees of the Software as described on the applicable Order Form or in an applicable Professional Services Addendum (“PSA”).

“Software” means the Materialize software and related documentation as specified on the applicable Order Form to which access is provided via the Services, and includes any change, improvement, enhancement, extension, upgrade or other new version or release thereof that is developed or otherwise made generally available by Materialize in connection with the Services to Customer. Use of the Software is governed by the Materialize Community License Agreement located at https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize/blob/main/LICENSE (“Community License”).

“Subscription Fee” means the then-current subscription fees as set forth on the applicable Order Form).

“Term” means the period of time identified on each Order Form, for which Materialize has agreed to provide and Customer has committed to pay for, the applicable Services.

## 2\. Licenses and Services.

2.1. **License.** Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Materialize grants Customer a limited, nonexclusive, revocable, non-sublicensable, nontransferable license during the Term to access, install and use the Services, solely for Customer’s internal business purposes, as set forth in the applicable Order Form, the form of which is attached hereto as **Exhibit A**. All rights not expressly granted to Customer are reserved by Materialize. Materialize reserves the right to modify the Software or Services at any time, provided that Materialize will not materially reduce the functionality of the Software or Services. Customer agrees that Customer’s purchase of Services is not contingent on the delivery of any future functionality or features or dependent on any oral or written comments made by Materialize regarding future functionality or features.

2.2. **Support.** Materialize shall provide Customer with access to the Services in accordance with the SLA attached to the Order Form.

2.3. **Professional Services.** Materialize may provide installation, implementation and other professional services as set forth in a PSA and related SOWs attached thereto as **Exhibit B**, as executed by the parties.

2.4. **Modifications.** From time to time, Materialize may modify this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified by Materialize, such modifications become effective for Customer upon renewal of the then-current Order Form(s), or entry into a new Order Form after the updated version of this Agreement comes into effect. Materialize will use reasonable efforts to notify Customer of the changes via email or other means. Customer may be required to click to accept or otherwise agree to the modified Agreement before renewing an existing Order Form or entering into a new Order Form, and in any event continued use of the Services and/or Software after the updated version of this Agreement goes into effect will constitute Customer’s acceptance of such updated version.

## 3\. Payment; Taxes.

3.1. **Payment.** Materialize shall invoice Customer for the Subscription Fees annually in advance (as indicated in the applicable Order Form). Except as specified herein or in an Order Form, the invoiced amounts are due and payable within thirty (30) days of the invoice date. Payment shall be made without any right of set-off or deduction. All payments made pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in the quoted currency and are nonrefundable. In the event that Materialize terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 4.2 or 4.3(a) hereunder, Customer is responsible for full payment of the Subscription Fees for the remainder of the then-current Term (as set forth in the applicable Order Form). If, at any time during the Term (a) Customer uses the Software in connection with any new uses not contemplated on an applicable Order Form, (b) the number of users accessing the Software on Customer’s account exceeds the number of permitted users in an applicable Order Form or (c) Customer increases the total number of cores or machines on which Customer uses the Software exceeds the limits set forth on an applicable Order Form (collectively, “Increased Usage”), Materialize will invoice Customer for such Increased Usage within (30) days after Customer notifies Materialize of such Increased Usage or Materialize identifies such Increase Usage after completion of an audit pursuant to Section 3.4. Upon receipt of the invoice, Customer agrees that it will pay Materialize for its Increased Usage. Customer must promptly notify Materialize of any occurring or planned Increased Usage within ten (10) days of the occurrence of such Increased Usage.

3.2. **Late Payment.** Any amount not paid when required to be paid under this Agreement shall accrue interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month or at the highest amount permitted by applicable law (if lower). For payments that are more than ten (10) days late, without limiting Materialize’s other rights and remedies, Materialize may suspend Customer’s access to the Services until payment in full has been made.

3.3. **Taxes.** All fees are exclusive of applicable local, state, federal and international sales, value added, withholding and other taxes and duties of any kind. Customer shall be responsible for payment of such taxes and duties of any kind, other than Materialize’s net income. Without limitation, Customer will be responsible for all applicable sales taxes unless it first claims a sales tax exemption by providing Materialize with an exemption certificate acceptable to the applicable authorities.

3.4. **Audit.** Materialize has the right to audit Customer’s use of Services, upon written notice during the Term and for one (1) year thereafter. The scope of such audit shall include, but is not limited to, Customer’s compliance with the terms of this Agreement and any Order Form as well as any instances of Increased Usage. Customer shall maintain such records and logs and shall permit Materialize to audit Customer’s compliance with this Agreement during the Term and for one (1) year thereafter. If an audit indicates an Increased Usage that was unreported to Materialize by Customer in accordance with Section 3.1, and such unreported Increased Usage resulted in an underpayment of five percent (5%) or more of any amounts due hereunder, Customer will promptly reimburse Materialize for the reasonable cost of the audit. Such rights will remain in effect through a period ending one year from the termination of this Agreement.

## 4\. Term and Termination.

4.1. **Term.** This Agreement shall commence on the effective date specified on the applicable Order Form and shall continue in effect until the last to expire Order Form expires, until or unless terminated earlier as set forth below. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Order Form, the Term shall automatically renew for successive periods of one (1) year or such other period specified in an applicable Order Form, unless either party gives at least sixty (60) days’ notice of non-renewal prior to the expiration of the then-current Term.

4.2. **Termination for Breach.** Without limiting any termination rights set forth in an Order Form, either party may terminate this Agreement immediately in the event the other party commits a material breach of this Agreement and fails to remedy that breach within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of material breach.

4.3. **Termination for Cause.** Without limiting any termination rights set forth in an Order Form, Materialize may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Customer (a) in the event of Customer’s unauthorized use of the Services or Software (including breach of the Community License or unreported Increased Usage), (b) if Customer fails to make timely payment to Materialize, or (c) if Customer violates Section 8.

4.4. **Effect of Termination.** Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason, the licenses provided to Customer shall terminate and Customer will immediately (i) cease all use of the Software, and (ii) properly uninstall or return to Materialize the Software and all copies thereof. No refunds are granted for any reason.

4.5. **Survival.** Upon any expiration or termination of any Order Form or this Agreement, all corresponding rights, obligations and licenses of the parties shall cease, except (a) all obligations accrued prior to the effective date of termination (including without limitation, all payments) shall survive, (b) Customer shall cease using the Services, and (c) Sections 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of this Agreement shall survive the termination of any Order Form or this Agreement for any reason.

## 5\. Proprietary Rights.

5.1. **Materialize Ownership.** Except for the licenses explicitly granted in this Agreement and the Community License, all right, title and interests in and to the intellectual property and proprietary rights of whatever nature in the Software and the Services, including derivative works, are and shall remain the exclusive property of Materialize and/or its suppliers. Materialize and its suppliers reserve any and all rights not expressly granted in this Agreement. Materialize is a trademark of Materialize, Inc., and shall not be used by Customer without Materialize’s express authorization.

5.2. **Restrictions.** Customer shall not directly or indirectly (a) include in Customer Data any unencrypted personally identifiable information or sensitive information; (b) encumber, lease, rent, loan, sublicense, transfer or distribute the Software or any Services; (c) use the Software or Services, or allow the transfer, transmission, export or re-export of all or any part of the Software or Services, in violation of any export control laws or regulations of the United States or any other relevant jurisdiction; (d) use the Software or Services for the benefit of any third party; or (e) permit any third party to engage in any of the foregoing proscribed acts.

5.3. **Feedback.** All Customer (a) suggestions for correction, change or modification to the Services and (b) other feedback, information and reports provided to Materialize hereunder (collectively, “Feedback”), will be the property of Materialize and Customer shall and hereby does assign any rights in such Feedback to Materialize. Customer agrees to assist Materialize, at Materialize’s expense, in obtaining intellectual property protection for such Feedback, as Materialize may reasonably request.

5.4. **Marketing and Publicity.** Materialize may state publicly that it is a service provider to Customer and display Customer’s trade names, trademarks, logos, domain names, and other distinctive brand features (“Brand Features”) on, but not limited to, Materialize’s website, promotional literature, presentations, and marketing and advertising materials, provided that prior written approval from the Customer’s Chief Marketing Officer will be required for any media assets used for co-marketing purposes. Upon prior written permission from Customer’s Chief Marketing Officer, which must be obtained on a case-by-case basis, Customer may agree to act as a public reference for potential Materialize customers, as well as on Materialize’s website, at least two (2) promotional videos and in any case studies published by Materialize.

## 6\. Customer Data.

6.1. **License.** Customer hereby grants to Materialize a non-exclusive, worldwide license to display, modify, distribute, perform and reproduce any data provided by or on behalf of Customer to Materialize as part of the Services (“Customer Data”) in order to (a) provide and optimize the Software or Services to Customer, and (b) collect the Customer’s name and telemetry data from Customer to improve the Services. Telemetry data may include, but will not be limited to, instance IDs (hashed account/instance IDs); platform and database version; startup timestamp; license key limits and hashcode (if applicable); socket limits; environment limits; feature flags; instance type/size; database drivers; memory usage; out-of-memory error counts; user counts; the classname of the function implementation; the number of times that function was called within the collection period; outcomes (success/failure); time taken and rows processed (if applicable); task batch method (run transformation, API, queue, etc.); task batch ID; and row count. On termination or expiration of this Agreement, Materialize will permanently delete all Customer Data in its possession, except that one (1) archival copy may be retained for compliance purposes. Any Customer Data so retained that is also Confidential Information shall remain subject to Section 8 for so long as it is retained.

6.2. **Obligations.** Customer’s use of Customer Data shall comply with this Agreement and any applicable laws and regulations. Customer is solely responsible for Customer Data. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement or an applicable Order Form, Customer is responsible for the proper configuration of Customer Data for use in the Services and for maintaining the security of Customer Data. If you include payment cardholder information in your use of the Services, Materialize will maintain all applicable Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard requirements.

6.3. **Aggregate Information.** “Aggregate Information” means aggregated and anonymous data collected or derived from the use of the Software and Services, provided that none of the foregoing specifically reveals any personally-identifying information, identifies Customer or contains any Customer Data. Materialize may collect and use Aggregate Information to gauge usage levels and performance, improve the Software and Services, ensure the Software’s proper operation and promote Materialize’s Software and Services. As between the parties, Aggregate Information and any materials that it is used to produce are the sole and exclusive property of Materialize.

6.4. **Usage Data.** Materialize may use third party services and technology to assign unique identifiers to individual users and collect and analyze information regarding individual user activity within the Software and Services (e.g. tracking clicks within the user console) (“Usage Data”). Materialize will only use Usage Data to analyze, develop, support, operate and improve the Services and Software. Materialize will not use Usage Data to identify individuals using their unique identifiers. Materialize may not share any Usage Data that includes Customer’s confidential information with any third parties except (a) in accordance with Section 8 of this Agreement or (b) to the extent the Usage Data is aggregated and anonymized such that Customer and Customer’s end users cannot be identified.

6.5. **Data Processing.** To the extent that, in connection with the Software or Services, Customer provides any Customer Data that contains “Personal Data” from a European “Data Subject” that is subject to the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (“GDPR”), Materialize’s Data Processing Addendum (“DPA”), available at https://materialize.com/data-processing-addendum/, shall apply. Any terms not defined in this Section 6 shall have the meanings assigned to them in the DPA.

6.6. **California Consumer Privacy Act.** The parties acknowledge and agree that Materialize is a service provider for the purposes of the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) and is receiving personal information from Customer pursuant to the Agreement for a business purpose. Materialize shall not sell any such personal information. Materialize shall not retain, use or disclose any personal information provided by Customer pursuant to the Agreement except as necessary for the specific purpose of performing the services for Customer pursuant to the Agreement, or otherwise as set forth in the Agreement or as permitted by the CCPA. The terms “personal information,” “service provider,” “sale,” and “sell” are as defined in Section 1798.140 of the CCPA, and Materialize will be considered a “service provider” pursuant to Section 1798.140 of the CCPA. Materialize certifies that it understands the restrictions of this Section 6.6.

## 7\. Warranty and Disclaimer.

EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE COMMUNITY LICENSE, THE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED TO CUSTOMER “AS IS,” WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES CONCERNING THE INSTALLATION, USE OR PERFORMANCE. MATERIALIZE AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. MATERIALIZE AND ITS SUPPLIERS DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL MEET CUSTOMER’S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION THEREOF WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT ERRORS WILL BE CORRECTED.

## 8\. Confidentiality.

8.1. **Confidentiality Obligations.** Materialize and Customer will retain in confidence all information and know-how transmitted by the other party to it during the Term, and for a period of four (4) years beyond the Term, that is clearly designated as being proprietary and/or confidential or that, by the nature of the circumstances surrounding the disclosure, ought reasonably to be treated as proprietary and/or confidential, and will make no use of such information and know-how except to further the purposes set forth in this Agreement.

8.2. **Exclusions; Required Disclosures.** Notwithstanding Section 8.1, neither Materialize, nor Customer shall have an obligation to maintain the confidentiality of information that (a) is now or subsequently becomes generally known or available by publication, commercial use or otherwise through no fault of the recipient; (b) is known by the recipient at the time of disclosure and is not subject to restriction; (c) is independently developed by the recipient without use of the discloser’s confidential information; or (d) is lawfully obtained from a third-party who has the right to make such disclosure. Further, the recipient may disclose confidential information as required by government or judicial order, provided the recipient gives the disclosing party written notice prior to such disclosure and complies with any protective order (or equivalent) imposed on such disclosure.

## 9\. Indemnity.

9.1. **Customer Indemnity.** Customer shall indemnify, defend, and hold Materialize and its affiliates and licensors, and its and their employees, officers, directors, and agents harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs) to the extent arising out of or in connection with Customer’s use of or access to the Software or Services, except for claims that the Software infringes or misappropriates a third party’s intellectual property rights.

9.2. **Materialize Indemnity.** Materialize shall indemnify, defend, and hold Customer harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs) to the extent arising out of or in connection with a third party claim that the Software infringes or misappropriates such third party’s intellectual property rights. The foregoing obligation shall not apply to: (a) modifications to the Software made by any party other than Materialize or its agents or made by Materialize at Customer’s request, if the alleged infringement relates to such modification, (b) combinations or use of the Software with any products, processes or materials not provided by Materialize where the alleged infringement relates to such combination or use, or (c) infringement or misappropriation of any intellectual property right in which Customer has an interest. If the Software becomes or, in Materialize’s opinion, is likely to become the subject of an injunction, Materialize may, at its option, (i) procure for Customer the right to continue using such Software as contemplated hereunder, (ii) modify the Software to make it non-infringing (without substantially compromising its functionality), or, if (i) and (ii) are not reasonably practicable, then (iii) terminate Customer’s license to the Software and refund the Subscription Fees actually paid for such infringing technology with a prorated deduction to account for Customer’s use thereof. The foregoing states the entire liability of Materialize with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights.

9.3. **Indemnity Procedure.** Each party’s indemnification obligations under this Section 9 are expressly contingent upon the party seeking indemnification giving the indemnifying party: (a) prompt written notice of any such claim or allegation for which indemnity is sought; (b) sole control over the defense and settlement thereof; and (c) reasonable assistance in such defense or settlement as the indemnifying party may request.

## 10\. Limitation of Liability.

10.1. **Exclusions.** IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFIT, LOST DATA, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, EVEN IF IT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

10.2. **Aggregate Liability.** IN ANY EVENT, AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE AGGREGATE LIABILITY OF EITHER PARTY FOR ANY REASON AND UPON ANY CAUSE OF ACTION UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT PAYABLE TO MATERIALIZE (IN THE CASE OF CUSTOMER) OR ACTUALLY PAID TO MATERIALIZE BY CUSTOMER (IN THE CASE OF MATERIALIZE) DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS PRIOR TO WHEN THE CAUSE OF ACTION AROSE.

## 11\. Miscellaneous.

11.1. **Governing Law; Attorneys’ Fee; Severability; Notice.** This Agreement is made under and will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without applying conflicts of law rules. Exclusive jurisdiction and venue for actions related to this Agreement will be the state or federal courts located in New York County having jurisdiction over Materialize’s offices, and both parties consent to the jurisdiction of such courts with respect to any such action. In any action to enforce this Agreement the prevailing party will be entitled to costs and attorneys’ fees. In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, such provisions shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when received, if personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or when receipt is electronically confirmed, if transmitted by facsimile or e-mail. Notices to Materialize must be sent to: 436 Lafayette Street, Floor 6, New York, NY 10003. Notices to Customer must be sent to its contact physical or email address as written on the applicable Order Form.

11.2. **Injunctive Relief.** Each party agrees that, in the event of any breach or threatened breach of Sections 2, 5 or 8, the non-breaching party will suffer irreparable damage for which it will have no adequate remedy at law. Accordingly, the non-breaching party shall be entitled to injunctive and other equitable remedies to prevent or restrain such breach or threatened breach, without the necessity of posting any bond.

11.3. **Assignment.** Customer may not assign this Agreement or its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any person or party, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without Materialize’s prior consent (at Materialize’s sole discretion).

11.4. **No Waiver; Limitations.** Failure by either party to exercise any right or remedy under this Agreement does not signify acceptance of the event giving rise to such right or remedy. To the extent permitted by applicable law, no action, regardless of form, arising out of this Agreement may be brought by Customer more than one (1) year after the cause of action has accrued.

11.5. **Compliance with Laws.** Each party will comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those relating to export control.

11.6. **U.S. Government Restricted Rights.** If the Services are being acquired by or on behalf of the U.S. Government or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), in accordance with 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense (“DOD”) acquisitions) and 48 C.F.R. 2.101 and 12.212 (for non-DOD acquisitions), the government’s rights in such Software and any documentation, including its rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display or disclose software or any documentation, will be subject in all respects to the license rights and restrictions provided in the Community License and this Agreement.

11.7. **Force Majeure.** Except for performance of a payment obligation, neither party will be liable to the other by reason of any failure in performance of this Agreement if the failure arises out of the unavailability of communications facilities or energy sources, acts of God, acts of the other party, acts of governmental authority, fires, strikes, delays in transportation, riots, terrorism, war, or any causes beyond the reasonable control of that party.

11.8. **Endorsement.** During the Term of this Agreement, Customer agrees to be a reference for Materialize and participate in a Materialize case study, and participate in a press release regarding Customer’s subscription to the Software, as mutually agreed upon. Neither party shall release its press release without first providing such press release to the other party for its review and approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

11.9. **Entire Agreement.** This Agreement together with the applicable attachments, exhibits and schedules attached hereto and web pages incorporated herein by reference constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and any and all written or oral agreements heretofore existing between the parties hereto are expressly canceled. Subject to Section 2.4, any modifications or waivers of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
